# Paper 7 Summary

##Reference:
Tian, Y., Lo, D., & Sun, C. (2013, September). Drone: Predicting priority of reported bugs by multi-factor analysis. In Software Maintenance (ICSM), 2013 29th IEEE International Conference on (pp. 200-209). IEEE.
[Link](http://ink.library.smu.edu.sg/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3016&context=sis_research)

##Keywords:
- *ii1)* Bug Priority Levels: This is a ranking from P1 to P5 in which P1 is the highest priority. Developers consider these rankings when picking which bugs to fix when their resources are limited.
- *ii2)* DRONE: Predicting Priority via Multi-Faceted Factor Analyses is the paper's new framework for aiding triagers in prioritizing bugs.
- *ii3)* GRAY: Thresholding and Linear Regressino to Classify Imbalanced Data is the new classification engine inside DRONE.
- *ii4)* F-measure: this was the metric they used to evaluate their system and it is 2*((precision*recall)/(precision+recall))
- *ii5)* Machine learning algorithim: an approach to classify the incoming data based on models that were built automatically from the pre-existing data

##Notes: <from 1-19>
- *iii1)* Informative visualizations: the figures, algorithm and tables are helpful (except for the cases in the Areas for Improvement section). Fig. 2 in particular is very useful in understanding the GRAY Classificaiton Engine (a large part of this paper's contribution)
- *iii2)* Baseline results: they report on the baseline results and the relative improvement to display the advantages of this framework and classification engine
- *iii3)* Sampling procedures: they used a huge database of over 10 thousand bugs and described where the bugs came from in great detail
- *iii4)* Commentary: In algorithm 1 they displayed how they tuned thresholds using greedy hill climbing.

##Artifacts:
###Motivation: 
When code is being tested or used, bug reports are generated by the users. These bug reports can come in in a very high volume and speed and it is difficult for companies with limited resources to manage. Developers tag bugs with priorities so that they can do the most pressing tasks first and the least last, but this is a time intensive task.
###Hypotheses: 
Using machine learning algorithms, it should be possible to prioritize bugs automatically and increase the productivity of workers.
###Contributions: 
- The new DRONE Framework
- The new GRAY classification engine
- Outperform baseline approaches in terms of average F-measure by a relative improvement of 58.61%

##Areas for Improvement:
- *iv1)* In Table X on page 208, it is nice to note that there were classifiers that could not complete in the time limit of 8 hours and classifiers that ran out of memory with more than 9GB required, however, the authors still should have attempted to complete these processes, noting the issues that were encountered to show the F-measure scores.
- *iv2)* The future work section is not very specific and does not seem to capture some of the issues with the paper that could be improved upon.
- *iv3)* One feature that they considered in the classification is the amount of bugs that the author submitted and that seems odd. It should not be the case that one bug author only notices bugs of a certian priority level.
- *iv4)* Table IV is very unnecessary to make into a table. It could have been just mixed into a paragraph.
